# Image-Processing-Matlab
We did this project under the guidance of Dr. Raju Poddar. In this project, sir used a device called BOCT( Biospeckle Optical Coherence Tomography) and with the help of this device, we got 100 BOCT scanned images of each Rice Control sample without any exposure, the Test Sample exposed to PVA, and the Test Sample exposed to PVC microplastics respectively. Initially, we studied the concepts behind the project, seedling growth, and germination under various circumstances, the basics of Image processing, MATLAB basics, etc. Our main task was to process the 100 BOCT scanned images into one image showing the Biospeckles present in the control and the test samples. Differentiating the Biological activity of the seed when it's exposed to microplastics and when it is not. The greater the Biological activity, the more the Biospeckle. We processed the images and got our results in MATLAB. MATLAB was the ideal platform for this project as an abbreviation for "matrix laboratory", and since the pixels are in matrix format our codes and the final images were all done in MATLAB.<br>
**Motivation:-**  I created this project to process many images (100 or more) and get one image from it, indicating the changes in the image. It's like an overall summary of multiple images of the same type and determines the changes in the pixels with a different color. The color could also be altered by changing the RGB values(between 0 to 1) in the code. Thus, obtaining the image that we desire.<br>
**Framework Used-** **MATLAB**
## Installation
To use this project you need to install MATLAB R2022a with all the required products helping it like image processing tools,etc. Link for installation:- https://in.mathworks.com/downloads/
## Project info.:-
### Rice Control Sample:
The Control_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of the rice control sample. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the Control_std image. Further, we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that, I first labeled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get Control std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used default Colormap hsv to get Control std default map.fig. The color bar beside the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave Control std our img1.fig and Control std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clearer image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles. 
### Test Samples exposed to PVA:
The PVA_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of rice samples exposed in PVA. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the PVA_std image. Further, we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that, I first labeled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get PVA std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used the default Colormap hsv to get the PVA std default map.fig. The color bar beside the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. It shows that there is less biological activity in the PVA samples compared to Rice Control Samples. Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave PVA std our img1.fig and PVA std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clearer image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles.
### Test Samples exposed to PVC:
The PVC_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of rice samples exposed in PVC. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the PVC_std image. Further, we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that, I first labeled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get PVC std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used default Colormap hsv to get PVC std default map.fig. The color bar beside the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. It shows that there is the least biological activity in the PVC samples, and lesser Biological activity in the PVA sample compared to the Rice Control Sample. Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave PVC std our img1.fig and PVC std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clearer image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles.
## Conclusion
Our project used a novel image-processing technique to analyze the effects of microplastics on rice seed germination and growth. We employed Biospeckle Optical Coherence Tomography (BOCT) to capture images of rice seeds exposed to control conditions, PVA microplastics, and PVC microplastics. By processing 100 images for each sample using custom MATLAB scripts, we were able to extract and visualize the biospeckles, which indicate biological activity within the seeds. Our analysis revealed a decrease in biospeckles in both PVA and PVC-exposed seeds compared to the control, suggesting that microplastics indeed hinder rice seed growth and development. This project has the potential to be adapted for studying the impact of microplastics on various plant species, for early stress detection in plants, and even for medical applications.
